Now,
before you create any website,
it's always a good idea to do a wire frame.
First,
there's a number of tools online.
Actually,
there's tons of tools online,
and you could also do it within a free hand on a piece of paper.
So whatever works for you when you're designing your Web site.
And this is also why it's important to note and understand all of the options with the
various components in bootstrap.
So you draw out your wire frame first,
depending on how you want your website toe look and the draw.
I always the one that I'm looking at right now,
so you can just simply create different layouts for websites and create that,
and then you can move the various components around.
This is a great tool,
and this is one that I used quite often in order to plan out the way that I want my website
toe look and be able to also present it.
So there's also various colors that you can add in,
and you can really style your website really nicely.
There's also different buttons,
containers,
forms,
graphs and so on,
and in the upcoming lessons I want to illustrate all of the amazing things that are
available with bootstrap.
So it is important to have an understanding of what's possible and then create your wire
frame around all of the different possibilities.
So at the very heart of it,
bootstrap is the grid,
and the grid is what provides the core layout for bootstrap is number of ways to create
various,
easily different columns as well as arose.
And these all get divided by a main container where you've got the container class.
So either container fluid or just container and container will give you the gutters on the
side,
on the left and on the right hand side,
whereas container fluid will go full with and then within the container you can add in rows
.
You can add in as many rose as you want and think of it like a table like a grid when
you're designing your website.
So everything is already within a grid format,
and when you do your wire frame,
you can easily layout and see how many columns you're gonna need.
So,
for instance,
this one is going to need three columns,
so this one is 50% 25 25.
So you could really easily do a three column design there.
This one is two columns.
So this column is probably about 80% where 75% and then this is 25%.
And then back down here below.
There's three columns.
So this one is probably 25 50 and also 25.
So this can give you your basic structure off your website.
So let's create this structure using the bootstrap grid and a number of rows.
And also there are three rows here.
So open up the editor,
and I'm going to just create this within the main section because every website is gonna
need a navigation in the main.
I'm gonna provide a class of container,
and this is in order to contain the grid and create a bunch of dips.
And these dibs are going to break up the role so we'll have first rope,
and then another div inside of it nested in there.
And this can be for the columns.
And the first road did have three columns.
So it's create all of those three columns.
So right now they're going to be equal with,
and then,
of course,
of bootstrap.
You can adjust that.
So we're creating the basic structure.
First,
the 2nd 1 had two columns,
and then the 3rd 1 once again had three columns and going back into the wire frame design.
So we had ah website name and we had a number of sections of content.
So this first column it had the name and then these sections had some content in them and
then going into the wire frame once again.
So we had a big section of content.
Grab that content and this one had a title.
But we're not gonna worry about that for now.
Eso this one again.
This was too mean sections for the website,
and the 1st 1 had just a ton of content.
That's a little bit too much for our example.
And then here we had a new ordered list and a bunch of list items within,
and I'll just add in a couple lists there,
and we can transform them two buttons afterwards and then one last time.
Let's go into the example once again and copy this text.
And we are We have the two buttons here.
We have an image here,
and we have another list here,
So this one might not even be a list.
It just might be a couple buttons and some text underneath.
We could always adjust that with bootstrap.
It's really easy to do so in the last one we haven't image.
So this create an image placeholder there,
bunch of text.
And then we also have a new ordered list and several list items included.
Now we do want to adjust the columns of our website.
I can make this smaller,
so I'm gonna shrink the screen size so that we can get a better sense of how the content is
being presented.
So we need to shift these over and with the bootstrap grid.
There is a number of ways to do that.
So we just use the call and the call on the break point.
This is only gonna break,
and this is gonna provide even columns.
So none of our examples needed that.
We need to have used the 12 column structure,
which is available in bootstrap,
and then we can also set various break points.
So there's extra small,
small,
medium,
large,
extra large and usually by default.
I like to have the break points on Call Dash MD.
That's because this is kind of the area where I can get enough content.
And this also really depends on amount of content that you're providing within the sections
.
Because if you set the break point to be smaller than depending on how much content you
have,
you might not want it to stock where it might not.
So it might be something that doesn't need to stock quite yet.
So that's dependent on content is how you an output that the different prefixes in the
different break points.
So here's another example of the equal with for the auto columns.
And again we do need to have special column widths.
And this is more of kind of like what we're looking for where we've got one of three two of
33 of three and the middle one is twice as wide as either the sights,
and that's using the call Dash six and then just down below.
There's an example where the call dash five so you can have these,
and these ones are always going to be that with,
so they're going to be a straight column with it doesn't matter where you resize it,
There's gonna be no brought break points,
so they're not going to stock at any point.
So that's the big difference there.
If you add in the break point,
it's gonna stack.
So let's add in the break points and we're going to do the MD break points on our columns.
We've got the 1st 1 here where we're gonna MD and this one is going to be twice as wide as
the others and M D Dash three and M D Dash three.
So see what it looks like.
So now we've got that first structure.
Let's do the same thing for the next role where we've got MD and maybe this is M M D Dash
eight.
You might not want you would not want to set the break points.
So get up to you depending on the content,
do MD dash for so that provides that type of structure for the website,
and I'm gonna make these sides smaller so you can see these ones are the same with,
and that one is the same width as well.
And this was just a random default example.
Of course,
you probably want to spend a little bit more time creating your examples.
So this one is M D three and I should update this one to be three as well.
And then this could be night so that the with stays the same in the middle.
Here is MD six,
and I do have a lot of content.
So we might want to keep this one static and we might not want it to stock it'll.
So how about we do that for the last part there?
And that's another thing that you need to decide when you are designed your website where
you want it to break.
So now we see the way that it's gonna stock,
so these ones are already stocking.
These ones are stocking.
And what I mean by stacking is that watch where the buttons go.
They go underneath that other div.
But this one will always stay the same with the three column designs.
So doesn't matter where we shrink the page down to.
It's always gonna have the three column to move on to the next lesson,
go over to draw I o or get a piece of paper,
sketch out a quick website design,
and then produce that using the grid system in bootstrap and coming up,
we're gonna make a few other minor adjustments and tweaks to this website to be able to
present it just as we see it here.
Within this example,
that's still to come in the next lesson.